---
title: 'InteractiveDynamics.jl: Fast, general-purpose interactive applications for complex systems'
tags:
  - Julia
  - Makie
  - dynamical systems
  - agents based modelling
  - interactive applications
  - GUI
authors:
  - name: George Datseris
    orcid: 0000-0003-0872-7098
    affiliation: 1
affiliations:
 - name: Max Planck Institute for Meteorology
   index: 1
date: 14 January 2022
bibliography: paper.bib

---

# Summary
Dynamical systems are, loosely speaking, a set of quantities or entities, whose value and behavior changes over time given a predefined set of rules.
Complex systems are dynamical systems that display complex behavior, in the form of deterministic chaos, emergent dynamics, self-organization, and many other forms.
Given their complex nature, it is useful for researchers to be able to examine these systems interactively and visually. This CLASSROOM
InteractiveDynamics.jl provides GUI-based interactive apps that are general purpose, fast, easy to use, easy to extend, and utilize the entire software organization _JuliaDynamics_, whose packages serve scientific applications of complex systems.
InteractiveDynamics.jl is a Julia package that is based on the Makie.jl visualization ecosystem. It takes instances of complex systems generated by the packages of JuliaDynamics that researchers already use in their day-to-day work, and turns them into GUI-based exploration apps within only 5-10 lines of code.

# Statement of need
Unfortunately there is a clear lack GUI-based interactive apps that are general purpose, fast, easy to use, and easy to extend.

_describe here the lack of software that does this_

# Design philosophy of InteractiveDynamics.jl
It reuses general structures.

# Features and Functionality
specifically CaosDB [@Fitschen2019], which has been developed specifically to handle large data bases connecting several scientific projects.

# Acknowledgements
InteractiveDynamics.jl has had contributions from various users that we would like to acknowledge here: Tim DuBois (`@libbum`), Frederik Banning (`@fbanning`), Sebastian Micluța-Câmpeanu (`@SebastianM-C`), Simon Danish (`@SimonDanisch`), Julius Krumbiegel (`@jkrumbiegel`).

# References
